---
title: "Week 5 Summer Update: Storytelling"
date: 2026-07-18
tags: [reflection]
---

Hi Library Boosters,

I hope everyone is ending their week on a strong note. This is a long update. Two tl;dr headlines:

>
1. The Los Robles parent volunteer group is expanding.
2. [Initial genre report and collection analysis complete!](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kuZ5Uz7RM8lqDWQX4nTpi1EsoETctrCNtJZgonl4I74/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.9jdnaj26gcr1) Nota Bene: this analysis is a nice input. It will be augmented with warm-blooded experience. The North Star that matters most: Los Robles kids have a welcoming space to develop a positive relationship with books and reading.

**Thank Yous**
This week, I'm especially grateful for the support of Molly Naughton and Jenna Valasek.

After hearing great things about Molly, I met her thanks to an intro from Sue. It was wonderful to hear about Molly's journey as an educator, volunteer library leader, and someone who cares deeply about kids and books. Grateful for the connection and looking forward to more convos pre or post shoveling, Molly!

Jenna Valasek is one of my street neighbors on Jasmine Way and her daughter Tristan will attend Los Robles as a kindergartener this coming academic year. Jenna is an expert in early childhood education and applies (expands) her expertise as a teacher at the Bing School and a lecturer at Stanford's Dept of Psychology. But, just between us, Jenna is also an incredible maker. She has agreed to step into the ever-so-serious role of the Los Robles Library Volunteer Sign Czar. More on what this means operationally soon. Hint: Jody's lovely Belle Haven Library has provided monstrous inspiration.

###

Skip to the **What happened this week?** section if you have been here before.

###

**The big operational goal**
The big goal is to organize the library stacks so that books can be checked in, checked out, and general library usage tracked by student and classroom / grade level.

**What is needed to achieve this goal?**
1. 🟢 DONE: The physical stacks are mirrored by the digital collection in Destiny.
2. 🟢 DONE: Destiny activities require functioning hardware, eg: a working scanner (or two).
3. 🟡 IN PROGRESS: print barcodes and catalog newly added books
4. 🟡 IN PROGRESS: an organizational system that kids can easily learn and interpret.

###

**What happened this week?**
1. The literacy team came by on Monday to review un-scannable titles. Thanks again to Jessica and Nerissa.

2. Jenna Valasek and I discussed space signage and organization on Tuesday. Jenna Wachtel Pronovost stopped by to say hi. Thanks for the continued support, Jenna WP!

3. I connected with Molly on Wednesday. Thanks again for the time, Molly!

4. I took the raw MARC files generated by [libraryscience.ai](http://libraryscience.ai) and ran them through Fable (Anthropic's latest AI model specializing in deep analysis and problem-solving). I wanted answers to several questions about our collection, including breakdowns of titles across Spanish and English, reading levels, and genre. That's not all! [The full report is here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kuZ5Uz7RM8lqDWQX4nTpi1EsoETctrCNtJZgonl4I74/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.9jdnaj26gcr1). This report is a big step toward Goal #4 listed above.

5. I added automatic publishing and summarization to [libraryscience.ai](http://libraryscience.ai). This means that these emails will be automatically recorded as blog entries as they go out. Weekly summaries will automatically be generated and posted for those who don't want the daily engagement ;) Soon, monthly, quarterly, and annual summaries will join the blog. The goal here, in addition to sharing the journey in real time as a way to think out loud, is to create foundations for storytelling, story sharing, systems building, and onboarding (of new volunteers).

###

**Blockers**
No blockers.

Happy weekend!
Chris
