---
title: Day 7 Summer Session - More Scanning
date: 2026-06-24
tags: [Reflection]
---

**Context**

Welcome to my new blog. This will take the place of daily updates so that readers have control over how frequent they would like to engage with my updates. 

I am starting to feel self conscious about knocking on everyone's email-front door to record fairly mundane updates now that Scanning and Labeling are the top two chores on our hitlist. 

Also, building out this little site breaks the monotony of some of the more tedious work and allows me to explore how cloud based tech might aid my efforts and the efforts of other volunteers around the district.

**What was done today?**

Chris scanned and ingested over 500 books in just over 1.5hrs of work. I had an especially high book data enrichment hit rate when scanning ISBNs and I'm getting used to scanning fast now that I have sounds to let me know when a book fails to resolve all necessary data from a scanned ISBN.

**Here's the big goal**

The drum beat that animates the work is to organize the library stacks so that books can be checked in, checked out, and general library usage tracked by student and classroom / grade level. 

**What is needed to achieve this goal?**

1. 🟡 IN PROGRESS: The physical stacks must be accurately represented in the digital catalog within Destiny. 
2. 🟢 DONE: Destiny activities require the functioning hardware, eg: a working scanner (or two).
3. 🟡 IN PROGRESS: The physical stacks need an organizational system that kids can easily learn and interpret.
